It is strange to me, Jock Calder of West Inch, to feel that though now, in
the very centre of the nineteenth century, I am but five-and-fiftyyears of
age, and though it is only once in a week perhaps that my wifecan pluck out
a little grey bristle from over my ear, yet I have livedin a time when the
thoughts and the ways of men were asdifferent asthough it were another
planet from this. For when I walk in my fields Ican see, down Berwick way,
the little fluffs of white smoke which tellme of this strange new
hundred-legged beast, with coals for food and athousand men in its belly,
for ever crawling over the border. On a shiny day I can see the glint of the
brass work as it takes thecurve near Corriemuir; and then, as I look out to
sea, there is the samebeast again, or a dozen of them maybe, leaving a trail
of black in theair and of white in the water, and swimming in the face of
the wind aseasily as a salmon up the Tweed. Such a sight as that would have
struckmy good old father speechless with wrath as well as surprise; for he
wasso stricken with the fear of offending the Creator that he was chary
ofcontradicting Nature, and always held the new thing to be nearly akin
tothe blasphemous. As long as God made the horse, and a man downBirmingham
way the engine, my good old dad would have stuck by thesaddle and the spurs.

      But he would have been still more surprised had he seen the peace
andkindliness which reigns now in the hearts of men, and the talk in
thepapers and at the meetings that there is to be no more war--save,
ofcourse, with blacks and such like. For when he died we had beenfighting
with scarce a break, save only during two short years, for verynearly a
quarter of a century. Think of it, you who live so quietly andpeacefully
now! Babies who were born in the war grew to be bearded menwith babies of
their own, and still the war continued. Those who hadserved and fought in
their stalwart prime grew stiff and bent, and yetthe ships and the armies
were struggling. It was no wonder that folkcame at last to look upon it as
the natural state, and thought how queerit must seem to be at peace.
Duringthat long time we fought the Dutch, we fought the Danes, we fought the
Spanish, we fought the Turks, wefought the Americans, we fought the
Monte-Videans, until it seemed thatin this universal struggle no race was
too near of kin, or too far away, to be drawn into the quarrel. But most of
all it was the French whom wefought, and the man whom of all others we
loathed and feared and admiredwas the great Captain who ruled them.

      It was very well to draw pictures of him, and sing songs about him,
andmake as though he were an impostor; but I can tell you that the fear
ofthat man hung like a black shadow over all Europe, and that there was
atime when the glint of a fire at night upon the coast would set everywoman
upon her knees and every man gripping for his musket. He hadalways won: that
was the terror of it. The Fates seemed to be behindhim. And now we knew that
he lay upon the northern coast with a hundredand fifty thousand veterans,
and the boats for their passage. But it isan old story, how a third of the
grown folk of our country took up arms, and how our little one-eyed,
one-armed man crushed their fleet. There was still to be a land of free
thinking and free speaking inEurope.

      There was a great beacon ready on the hill by Tweedmouth, built up
oflogs and tar-barrels; and I can well remember how, night after night,
Istrained my eyes to see if it were ablaze. I was only eight at thetime, but
it is an age when one takes a grief to heart, and I felt asthough the fate
of the country hung in some fashion upon me and myvigilance. And then one
night as I looked I suddenly saw a littleflicker on the beacon hill--a
single red tongueof flame in thedarkness. I remember how I rubbed my eyes,
and pinched myself, andrapped my knuckles against the stone window-sill, to
make sure that Iwas indeed awake. And then the flame shot higher, and I saw
the redquivering line upon the water between; and I dashed into the kitchen,
screeching to my father that the French had crossed and the Tweedmouthlight
was aflame. He had been talking to Mr. Mitchell, the law studentfrom
Edinburgh; and I can see him now as he knocked his pipe out at theside of
the fire, and looked at me from over the top of his hornspectacles.

      "Are you sure, Jock?" says he.

      "Sure as death!" I gasped.

      He reached out his hand for the Bible upon the table, and opened it
uponhis knee as though he meant to read to us; but he shut it again
insilence, and hurried out. We went too, the law student and I, andfollowed
him down to the gate which opens out upon the highway. Fromthere we could
see the red light of the big beacon, and the glimmer of asmaller one to the
north of us at Ayton. My mother came down with twoplaids to keep the chill
from us, and we all stood there until morning, speaking little to each
other, and that little in a whisper. The roadhad more folk on it than ever
passed along it at night before; for manyof the yeomen up our way had
enrolled themselves in theBerwickvolunteer regiments, and were riding now as
fast as hoof could carrythem for the muster. Some had a stirrup cup or two
before parting, andI cannot forget one who tore past on a huge white horse,
brandishing agreat rusty sword in the moonlight. They shouted to us as they
passedthat the North Berwick Law fire was blazing, and that it was
thoughtthat the alarm had come from Edinburgh Castle. There were a few
whogalloped the other way, couriers for Edinburgh, and the laird's son,
andMaster Clayton, the deputy sheriff, and such like. And among othersthere
was one a fine built, heavy man on a roan horse, who pulled up atour gate
and asked some question about the road. He took off his hat toease himself,
and I saw that he had a kindly long-drawn face, and agreat high brow that
shot away up into tufts of sandy hair.

      "I doubt it's a false alarm, " said he. "Maybe I'd ha' done well to
bidewhere I was; but now I've come so far, I'll break my fast with
theregiment. "

      He clapped spurs to his horse, and away he went down the brae.

      "I ken him weel, " said our student, nodding after him. "He's a
lawyerin Edinburgh, and a braw hand at the stringin' of verses. Wattie
Scottis his name.None of us had heard of it then; but it was not long before
it was thebest known name in Scotland, and many a time we thought of how
hespeered his way of us on the night of the terror.

      But early in the morning we had our minds set at ease. It was grey
andcold, and my mother had gone up to the house to make a pot of tea forus,
when there came a gig down the road with Dr. Horscroft of Ayton init and his
son Jim. The collar of the doctor's brown coat came over hisears, and he
looked in a deadly black humour; for Jim, who was butfifteen years of age,
had trooped off to Berwick at the first alarm withhis father's new fowling
piece. All night his dad had chased him, andnow there he was, a prisoner,
with the barrel of the stolen gun stickingout from behind the seat. He
looked as sulky as his father, with hishands thrust into his side-pockets,
his brows drawn down, and his lowerlip thrusting out.

      "It's all a lie!" shouted the doctor as he passed. "There has been
nolanding, and all the fools in Scotland have been gadding about the
roadsfor nothing. "

      His son Jim snarled something up at him on this, and his father
struckhim a blow with his clenched fist on the side of his head, which
sentthe boy's chin forward upon his breast as though he had been stunned. My
father shook his head, for he had a liking for Jim; but we all walkedup to
the house again, nodding and blinking, and hardly able tokeep oureyes open
now that we knew that all was safe, but with a thrill of joyat our hearts
such as I have only matched once or twice in mylifetime.

      Now all this has little enough to do with what I took my pen up to
tellabout; but when a man has a good memory and little skill, he cannot
drawone thought from his mind without a dozen others trailing out behind it.
And yet, now that I come to think of it, this had something to do withit
after all; for Jim Horscroft had so deadly a quarrel with his father, that
he was packed off to the Berwick Academy, and as my father had longwished me
to go there, he took advantage of this chance to send me also.

      But before I say a word about this school, I shall go back to where
Ishould have begun, and give you a hint as to who I am; for it may bethat
these words of mine may be read by some folk beyond the bordercountry 
who never heard of the Calders of West Inch. It has a brave sound, West
Inch, but it is not a fine estate with abraw house upon it, but only a great
hard-bitten, wind-swept sheep run, fringing off into links along the
sea-shore, where a frugal man mightwith hard work just pay his rent and have
butter instead of treacle onSundays. In the centre there is a grey-stoned
slate-roofed house with abyre behind it, and "1703" scrawled in stonework
over the lintel of thedoor. There formore than a hundred years our folk have
lived, until, for all their poverty, they came to take a good place among
the people;for in the country parts the old yeoman is often better thought
of thanthe new laird.

      There was one queer thing about the house of West Inch. It has
beenreckoned by engineers and other knowing folk that the boundary
linebetween the two countries ran right through the middle of it,
splittingour second-best bedroom into an English half and a Scotch half. Now
thecot in which I always slept was so placed that my head was to the northof
the line and my feet to the south of it. My friends say that if Ihad chanced
to lie the other way my hair might not have been so sandy, nor my mind of so
solemn a cast. This I know, that more than once in mylife, when my Scotch
head could see no way out of a danger, my goodthick English legs have come
to my help, and carried me clear away. But at school I never heard the end
of this, for they would call me"Half-and-half" and "The Great Britain, " and
sometimes "Union Jack. "When there was a battle between the Scotch and
English boys, one sidewould kick my shins and the other cuff my ears, and
then they would bothstop and laugh as though it were something funny.

      At first I was very miserable at the Berwick Academy. Birtwhistle
wasthe first master, and Adams the second, and I had no love for either
ofthem. I was shy and backward by nature, and slow at making a friendeither
among masters or boys. It was nine miles as the crow flies, andeleven and a
half by road, from Berwick to West Inch, and my heartgrewheavy at the weary
distance that separated me from my mother; for, markyou, a lad of that age
pretends that he has no need of his mother'scaresses, but ah, how sad he is
when he is taken at his word! At last Icould stand it no longer, and I
determined to run away from the schooland make my way home as fast as I
might. At the very last moment, however, I had the good fortune to win the
praise and admiration ofevery one, from the headmaster downwards, and to
find my school lifemade very pleasant and easy to me. And all this came of
my falling byaccident out of a second-floor window.

      This was how it happened. One evening I had been kicked by Ned Barton,
who was the bully of the school; and this injury coming on the top ofall my
other grievances, caused my little cup to overflow. I vowed thatnight, as I
buried my tear-stained face beneath the blankets, that thenext morning would
either find me at West Inch or well on the way to it. Our dormitory was on
the second floor, but I was a famous climber, andhad a fine head for
heights. I used to think little, young as I was, ofswinging myself with a
rope round my thigh off the West Inch gable, andthat stood three-and-fifty
feet above the ground. There was not muchfear then but that I could make my
way out of Birtwhistle's dormitory. I waited a weary while until the
coughing and tossing had died away, andthere was no sound of wakefulness
from the long line of wooden cots;then I very softly rose, slipped on my
clothes, took my shoes in myhand, and walked tiptoe to the window. I opened
the casement and lookedout. Underneath me lay the garden, and close by my
hand was the stoutbranch of a pear tree. An active lad could ask no better
ladder. Once in the garden I
Vote
Added by: blond-power

The year 1814. The lucky star of Napoleon Bonaparte seems to set once and
for all, and the entire England is waiting the news about peace. It was this
time, when a stranger appears in a small town on the border of England and
Scotland – unknown Frenchman possessing a large sum of money and,
apparently, some secrets of his past. This is the story, which gave the name
to this collection by Conan Doyle. The creator of numerous famous stories
about the detective Sherlock Holmes, which are generally considered a major
innovation in the field of crime fiction, hardly this Scottish physician and
writer needs to be introduced. This book also includes “The Crime of the
Brigadier”1900 - the story of fox hunting, and “ The «Slapping Sal»”, which
tells of an English 32-gun frigate trying to find and scuttle a pirate ship,
known under the name of “Slapping Sal. The Great Shadow And Other Napoleonic 
Tales had but a five-foot wall to get over, and thenthere was nothing but
distance between me and home. I took a firm gripof a branch with one hand,
placed my knee upon another one, and wasabout to swing myself out of the
window, when in a moment I was assilent and as still as though I had been
turned to stone.

          There was a face looking at me from over the coping of the wall.
Achill of fear struck to my heart at its whiteness and its stillness. The
moon shimmered upon it, and the eyeballs moved slowly from side toside,
though I was hid from them behind the screen of the pear tree. Then in a
jerky fashion this white face ascended, until the neck, shoulders, waist,
and knees of a man became visible. He sat himselfdown on the top of the
wall, and with a great heave he pulled up afterhim a boy about my own size,
who caught his breath from time to time asthough to choke down a sob. The
man gave him a shake, with a few roughwhispered words, and then the two
dropped together down into the garden. I was still standing balanced with
one foot upon the bough and one uponthe casement, not daring to budge for
fear of attracting theirattention, for I could hear them moving stealthily
about in the longshadow of the house. Suddenly, from immediately beneath my
feet, Iheard a low grating noise and the sharp tinkle of falling glass.

          "That's done it, " said the man's eager whisper. "There is room
for you. "